Hey welcome
back! So, we're going to add some music to our menu system, and
all the way through the game, it's going to be persistent music. I
was playing Escape Plan, on the PS4, the other day,
and it just struck me that the fact the music
starts when the game starts and then continues
through as you load levels, etc., just really bonded
the whole game together. So, I've decided to show you how
to do that here. So, we're going to add a MusicPlayer Game Object,
and then, we're going to add a music track of our choice
and then use a command called GameObject
.DontDestroyOnLoad() to prevent that
music from stopping player or in said
differently, to make it continue playing when you load the next level.
Then, we'll test it all and we'll be done, so let's
take a look. The first thing you're going to need to do is
source a relevant music track, so why don't we just do that
straight away. So, freesound.org
would be a good place to go for that. And
you want to look for songs with a Creative Commons License, so let's
go to www.creativesound.org, here it is. So,
in order to download a track from these guys, you will need an account, so just
create yourself an account, and you will have to activate that
account, by e-mail. So, once you're logged into freesound.org,
you can tell I'm logged in, because my name is here and I have a Logout Button.
Then, search! I'm going to search for something like game music.
Now, before you get too excited about anything you find,
I would click the Creative Commons License Button,
first. You want to be filtering for Creative Commons
Tracks. Then, look down and try and find something you like
the sound of. What does Grasshopper look like?
Not much! [Laughs] OK!
What does Happy 8 Bit
Pixel Adventure sound like? [Music Plays]
[Music Plays]
[Music Plays] That's pretty
cool! I quite like that!
Is there anything else? Nodense, is that more appropriate?  [Music Plays]
[Music Plays]
OK, that's pretty good, too! So, that one, how long is it?
About a minute, by the looks of it. If I click at the start,
it's about a minute, and this Happy 8 Pixel Adventure is 1
minute 52. Let's... [Music Plays]
Yeah, I'm going to go
for the Happy 8 Bit Pixel Adventure Track, just
it's a bit longer and it's going to loop less often and I don't know.
Who cares, just pick a track! So, click on it,
and download. You'll get a .mp3
file, in this case a .wav file actually. Here's a .wav file.
A .wav file is going to be a bit big. How big is it? 40
meg. Wooh! 40 megs, a little
chunky! So, what I'm going to suggest is either grab a different
sound, which I'll try while this downloads, or
if you do want to go with a .wav, I would convert it to a .mp3,
because at 40 meg, that's going to slow down the loading of your
web build, quite a lot really. So, let's try
this one, Nodens, which was my second favorite choice.
Now, that's only 795 kilobytes.
Ah, so look it's entirely up to you. If  you can be bothered to convert
your .wav into a .mp3 and try and get it a sensible
size, which really means less than a couple of meg, go
ahead. I'm going to stop this download, and I'm going to go for this
other song, just because it's smaller. OK, so it's
"Nodens (Field Song)" I'm going for, which you can get from Free Sound.
There it is! Downloaded it
before actually, so what you need to do next is drag
it into Unity. So you won't have a Sounds Folder yet, so it can go
straight into the Assets Folder.
There it comes! Di do di do di da da da
do boo! Done fantastic! Alright, so I'm going
to be tidy and make a new folder called More Sounds, and
put all our sound effects in there.
While we've got the Inspector opened for this
sound, you see up on the top right, in the Inspector
when clicked on the sound clip,
it says 3D sound is ticked. Well, if you want to
un-tick that, then that would be more appropriate for this
game. I'll be doing that later in the project, but this is a good
time for you to un-tick it, then it will come out of both ears at a more sensible
volume. Now, looking at that file name is pretty
disgusting. Really, I can't really understand what that's talking about.
So I'm going to say, I don't know bg music, or something
like that, and then,
I'm going to leave a bit of the original file name on, so I can
find it again. Imagine I come back to this in several months and think, what the hell is that
music? Where did I get it from? Well, at least I would be able to find
it by searching "Nodens (Field Song)".
You'll probably also
find, when it's finished reprocessing the sound, that if we look for that
in our File System, and then,
take a look at the file that it's got, it'll have some
sort of, here you go, Meta Data on it. Video Game Music,
Slow Electronic Song, it came from Free Sound, so here you go.
This is your best way to get back to it, if you ever wanted to. It's all in the Meta Data.
Cool! So, there it is, we have a sound.
So, the next thing we need to do, given that we've got a sound in Unity, is
firstly make it not a 3D sound. Just it's going to
make volume management easier. This is a 2D game,
we don't need a 3D sound, so turn that off and Apply it.
I'm sorry, if you've got a slow computer, this could take a
while to process, but mine is quite
quick, so it should be OK. Bang! Done! Alright! Now,
What we need to do is go to your Start Menu, because it's
there that want the music to play for the first time.
Create an empty game object,
call it, I'm going to call it Music...
Player. I'm going to use a space, because it's clearer. Now,
this will only save if you specifically hit Return up here.
The way that you know it's saved the name is because it'll change in the Hierarchy.
So, I have a MusicPlayer Game Object. Now, I can add the
sound to it. Just grab it, drag it, and drop it on the Inspector
or on the object itself, over here, and it will
add a component called an AudioSource. It guesses what you mean by
saying, I want to drop it.
I'm going to reset the Transform of this, so click on the Transform of
the MusicPlayer and Reset, because you really
want all Game Objects that don't have a physical
location, a physical meaning, to be at the
Origin, just for tidiness. I'm actually going to move it up immediately under the
camera, because just to me it makes sense. You've got the camera and
the MusicPlayer. I'm going to call to the volume,
from the word go, because it's background music. So, before I even
test it against sound effects, that we will add later, I'm just
going to make the volume a lot quieter. And now, I'm going to make sure
that it plays on the Start Menu.
[Music Plays] Great!
So, it plays without deafening me. So of course, if I was to click the Start
Button, we change scenes
but no more music, right? [Music Plays]
[Music Plays] Till we get back to the Start Menu.
So, that's all very well, but we want the music, we said, to continue
through all the time. So, how do we make that happen? Well,
that's where our cunning GameObject.
.DontDestroyOnLoad () comes in.
Where is it? Here! I said we were
going to show you this, yellow command, GameObject.DontDestroyOnLoad ().
So, let's do it. Where do you think that's going to go, that
script? Where do I write the command? Where do I put the script? Well, it's
about playing music, so it's going to need its own script, its own class.
So, let's make that, and I'm going to call it very imaginatively,
Music Player. We typically do, when we have a single
script component on something, we
typically call it the same thing as the actual object.
You know, if you had a paddle you'd call it a paddle script,
if you had a ball you'd call it a ball script. If it's a dog call
it a dog. At the end of the day, when you start adding multiple scripts, multiple
components, of course you need to think about your naming more carefully.
So, we name this script with a capital M, because it is a class and
no space, because we're not allowed spaces. Cool!
Now, where does it put the script? Good thing is it's attached nicely to
the MusicPlayer. Bad thing it's gone in the root of Assets, so let's tidy that up,
and finally, let's get into our script.
By the way, eventually, we're going to play with real blocks. [Laughs] This
is all preparatory work. So, this is a static method of Game
Object, so don't worry too much about what that means, at the moment,
but it's something that takes in a GameObject
instance and makes sure that it does not
get destroyed on load. That's what you need to know. So, I just want to take a
moment to explain, even more clearly, exactly what this
gameObject with a small g thing is.
If we look at our Start Scene here,
the GameObject is the MusicPlayer. It's
the instance of the MusicPlayer, you can see it there in the Hierarchy,
and in terms of what's in the Inspector it's
the whole thing; the MusicPlayer and all its components, such as
Transform, AudioSource, and the script attached
to it. So, that's what gameObject is with a small g.
So, here it is, having saved that script and go
back to Unity, what happens? Well, let's see!
Click play, now click Start,
pause it
so you can hear what I'm saying. Now, we're in the
Game Scene now. We're actually in Level 01, it
does not reflect in the top of Unity, during Play
Mode, we're in Play Mode, but we are obviously in the
Level 01. And look, over here in the Hierarchy, we have
a MusicPlayer. It's moved through it's continued through, so let's
just watch the entire cycle.
[Music Plays]
Fantastic! So, we're nearly there! The
MusicPlayer is continuing and persisting through all of the scene
loads, without any interruption, which sounds really good and really
co -adheres the game together. One little problem is that when we
arrive back at the Start Scene, if we do go full circle,
a new MusicPlayer gets created, so let's look at
how to stop that happening.